# Configuration

&nbsp;

Vinyl is centred around a single configuration file that controls the underlying volumes, pitches, and behaviours of audio played with Vinyl. You can find this configuration file in the Vinyl folder in your asset browser; its name is `__VinylConfig`. When you import Vinyl for the first time, this config file will be filled with some example configuration and some comments (you can see an online copy of this file [here](https://github.com/JujuAdams/Vinyl/blob/master/notes/__VinylConfig/__VinylConfig.txt)).

You can read more about the syntax of the configuration file [here](Config-Syntax). As an overview: it uses an abbreviated form of JSON with a couple extra helpful feature geared towards human readability and brevity for configuring groups of assets at the same time. `__VinylConfig` can be edited whilst the game is running from the IDE on Windows, Mac, or Linux. If Vinyl detects that a change has been made, Vinyl will live update audio playback without you having to close and recompile the entire game. This means you can finesse your audio mix without having to stop playing the game - a substantial workflow improvement over what GameMaker offers natively.

?> If you're changing values inside the configuration file and nothing seems to be happening, check your debug log for any errors, and then check your [config macros](Config-Macros).

The gain and pitch values `__VinylConfig` default to GameMaker's standard normalised values: a gain of `0` is silent and a gain of `1` is unaffected, a pitch of `0.5` is half the frequency and a pitch of `1` is unaffected. These can be changed to decibel and percentage values respectively by toggling a couple of [config macros](Config-Macros). Many properties are marked as having a default value of *`passthrough`* which means that the eventual value that's used by Vinyl will be inherited, if possible, from somewhere else. The exact rules of inheritance depend on the property in question so please read documentation carefully for each feature.